---
title: 'Ethic Blog 1: Ethical Frameworks'
date: 2025-09-30
permalink: /posts/2025/09/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Regulating AI
  - Ethics
  - Harvard Study
---
Research confirms that AI already has persuasive capabilities that outperform skilled negotiators. As artificial intelligence becomes more ubiquitous within the infrastructure of business and finance, we’re quickly seeing the potential for unprecedented risks that our legal frameworks and corporate institutions are unprepared to address.

**New Article**  
[How To Regulate AI](https://news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2025/09/how-to-regulate-artificial-intelligence-ai/)

As AI is getting more and more creative, the ethical concerns of its use is also increasing. As I scroll through my phone I will come across at least 3 AI made videos. 
Somtimes AI is used to make false propeganda towards a certain political side. This is huge ethical concern that is not inly affecting the viewers but also traing AI to then memorize and spread propegandas around the world.
The main use of AI these days is to make memes on tiktok and to create a realistic photos with celeberties. But seeing how far AI has improved and how more it can improve on, questions its ability to also make misleading videos relating to poletics, court cases and more.
This Article mainly discussess concerns of bussniss owners, big company workers and so on. As its first topic is The Risks of illegal scams, price-fixing collusion. It talks about how AI transforms traditional scams into bespoke, AI-tailored schemes.
A lot of actions done by AI could be judged by the framworks of ethics. looking at the Care ethic framwork, AI goes against it by misleading people on how we can meet the needs of particular others. Like I mentioed Earlier about the misuses of AI and it can be misguiding especially to uneducated people and people who only get their information from social media platforms.
This excersise went very well for me. It helped me understand the danger of AI misusage and Why people should fact check what they see, and not relay on Social Media as their main source of information.